---
layout: post
title: Building luiselizondo.net
date: '2013-04-04 20:37:57'
tags:
- drupal
---

<p>I wanted to have a blog for a very long time, and it was one of those things you always end up never doing. This is the story and what's behind this blog, most of what I'm about to tell you is written for non-humans,&nbsp; so if you speak Drupal, please continue, if not, you can read any other of my blog posts... or read a book.</p><p>After being a Drupal guy, but having problems specially with how Drupal handles Media, I decided to give Wordpress a chance, only to decide that there wasn't a better blog system than Tumblr. And it's great, but, eventually, you just wanto to move away from it. After much tought, I decided I wanted a Saas using Wordpress, so I started using Wordpress.org. It was awesome, Wordpress.org has made terrific progress since the last time I used it, but Saas it's not for everyone, specially when you can't install some Plugin / Module. So I decided to remove the site on Wordpress.org and move it to my @Linode server.</p><p>But one day something broke up. And then, tired of trying, I ended up giving Drupal 7 another chance, specially since the Media module made some terrific progress in the last months. And here it is, my Blog running on Drupal 7. Not everything was easy, I had some problems with the Google Analytics module / verification process, I also had some problems with the Debut Features set. And finally, I had more trouble with the Apps module / ecosystem.</p><p>When I solved all those problems, I also wanted to enable Twitter (to tweet everytime I create a new post) but I haven't been able to complete the process, I keep getting one error. I also wanted to create posts from my iPhone, so I downloaded DrupalGap, but after struggling for a couple of hours without any progress, I decided to give up. But the next day I disabled Global Redirect and everything worked like magic. Only to find out minutes later that the iOS app wasn't what I was expecting and I decided I have to do something about it. There's the "Drupal Create" iOS app but I haven't used it so I don't even know what it does, it might end up being not what I expect. Anyway, the site usines Twitter Bootstrap and I'm also using the "Elder" theme as an admin theme, both are responsive so I can use iOS to create content when I'm not on my computer.</p><p>Finally, the site runs Nginx becuase I wanted to give it a try. Right know it's working great but I keep getting an error: "Your server is not capable of displaying file upload progress. File upload progress requires an Apache server running PHP with mod_php."</p>